# Zillow Housing Project
Objective:
The objective of this project is to analyze the US housing market trends using data from Zillow Research and provide comprehensive insights and visualizations to assist a real estate investor in making informed decisions on where to invest \\$7.5 million for maximum gains. The analysis will focus on identifying potential markets for single-family homes or rental apartments, considering factors such as sale and inventory listing prices, market trends, square footage price ratios, time on market before renting or selling, average rental profits after mortgage payments, and any other relevant data. The project will deliver visually compelling presentations and reports to present the findings and recommendations to the investor.

Conclusion:
1. Investing in the real estate markets for 2bhk and 3 bhk of Miami, Atlanta, and Phoenix is highly promising and likely to result in higher profitability.
2. After analyzing the sales and inventory data for all homes values, we highly recommend considering Dallas, Texas as an excellent location for real estate investment.
3. The purchase of houses between the months of April and July would be a favorable decision for all homes values. 
4. There does not appear to be any relationship between the sale-to-list price ratio and the square footage home values. Therefore, we can answer the question that the square footage price (home value per number of bedrooms) is not directly impacting the sale and listing price ratio to go up or down. While the square footage home value for single family homes has been increasing, it does not appear to have been increasing as a result of the sale-to-list price ratio, nor does the sale-to-list price ratio appear to be impacted by the square footage home values. Since early 2022, the sale-to-list price ratio has been declining, and we can expect the ratio to display typical seasonal behaviors for this year where it rises through the summer before it begins to fall after the summer.
5. We would recommend to invest in Texas, since it has many cities with low days for pending in market.
6. While most of the geographical regions have a similar trend, we can see that New York, NY and Miami, FL are two of the top regions for rental profit. Los Angeles and Phoenix are at the bottom of this list by a significant amount. Real estate property values in New York are dramatically more expensive than in other regions of the country, so based on anecdotal knowledge that real estate in Florida is cheaper to purchase, the suggestion is for the investory to purchase properties in Miami, Florida in cash and then turn them into rental properties. The investor would be seeing a very stable rental market with profit at or greater than \\$1,000/month since 2015. Miami has experienced a boom since mid to late 2020 where rental profit has increased to above \\$1,500/month after paying the "mortgage".

